---
title: "Junjie Huang, Guan Huang, Zheng Zhu, and Dalong Du. BEVDet: High-performance Multi-camera 3D Object Detection in Bird-Eye-View. arXiv:2112.11790, 2021."
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2021-12-22-BEVDet
excerpt: 'The pineer that conducts multi-camera 3D object detection in Bird-Eye-View'
date: 2021-12-22
venue: 'Arxiv'
paperurl: 'https://arxiv.org/pdf/2112.11790.pdf'
---
### Abstract
Autonomous driving perceives its surroundings for decision making, which is one of the most complex scenarios in visual perception. The success of paradigm innovation in solving the 2D object detection task inspires us to seek an elegant, feasible, and scalable paradigm for fundamentally pushing the performance boundary in this area. To this end, we contribute the BEVDet paradigm in this paper. BEVDet performs 3D object detection in Bird-Eye-View (BEV), where most target values are defined and route planning can be handily performed. We merely reuse existing modules to build its framework but substantially develop its performance by constructing an exclusive data augmentation strategy and upgrading the Non-Maximum Suppression strategy. In the experiment, BEVDet offers an excellent trade-off between accuracy and time-efficiency. As a fast version, BEVDet-Tiny scores 31.2% mAP and 39.2% NDS on the nuScenes val set. It is comparable with FCOS3D, but requires just 11% computational budget of 215.3 GFLOPs and runs 9.2 times faster at 15.6 FPS. Another high-precision version dubbed BEVDet-Base scores 39.3% mAP and 47.2% NDS, significantly exceeding all published results. With a comparable inference speed, it surpasses FCOS3D by a large margin of +9.8% mAP and +10.0% NDS. 

### Code
Access code here [GitHub](https://github.com/HuangJunJie2017/BEVDet).

### Paper
Download paper here [Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2112.11790.pdf).

### Cite
```
@article{huang2021bevdet,
    title={BEVDet: High-performance Multi-camera 3D Object Detection in Bird-Eye-View},
    author={Huang, Junjie and Huang, Guan and Zhu, Zheng and Yun, Ye and Du, Dalong},
    journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2112.11790},
    year={2021}
}
```